retention_and_disposal.md, before:

# Retention and Disposal of Physical Media

The following guidelines dictate our approach to retention and disposition of physical media after files have been successfully transferred from it.

## Default Procedure

Our default procedure is to recycle or shred removable media after content has been successfully transferred. There are some exceptions to this rule, including:
- media for which transfer is unsuccessful or errors occur
- media formats for which we do not currently have procedures or equipment for transfer
- media which has artifactual value
- media that needs to be returned to the donor

Speak with the Archivist for Metadata and Digital Curation if you have questions about whether a particular piece of media should be retained for any reason.

Most materials can be recycled while media containing sensitive data or Personally Identifiable Information (PII) should be shredded.

Donors also occasionally request their digital materials be returned. In this case, the media can be returned along with separations after processing is complete. Be sure to check the donor agreement and/or with the Lead Archivist for Collections Management about any donor requests.

> **Note**
>
> If an error occurs at any point in the transfer process, retain physical media.

Once a year, or once the recycling/shredding boxes in the loading dock are full (whichever comes first), we will arrange for removal.

## Procedures for Disposal, Return, and Retention

When media is to be recycled or shredded:
- When content is successfully transferred off of removable media and the donor has not requested its return, it can be recycled or shredded.
- Media containing PII or other sensitive information should be placed in the shredding box so that it can be securely disposed of. All other media can be recycled.
- Instructions on how and where to dispose of physical media can be found below in the Logistics section.

When media is to be returned to donor:
- After the successful transfer of content, store removable media together with paper-based separations to be returned to the donor following regular procedures (i.e. Lead Archivist for Collections Management will contact donor when processing is complete; materials can be returned by mail or donor must retrieve within 3 months).
- If no other materials are being returned to the donor, set removable media aside and inform Lead Archivist for Collections Management when work is complete.
- Add location where media are being stored to the accession record.
- If multiple accessions are being processed at the same time, the location should be added to the most recent/last created record.

When media is to be retained:
- Occasionally, we may retain removable media for a variety of reasons including unsuccessful transfer or when errors occur during transfer, when we do not have procedures or equipment for transfer, or when media has artifactual value.
- Speak with the Archivist for Metadata and Digital Curation if you have questions about whether a particular piece of media should be retained for any reason.
- Assign items to a removable media box (currently located in G-1012-D through G-1012-U) and record location and any other useful information for future processors (i.e. reason(s) for retention, issues with transfer, future plans for transfer, etc.) in the accession record.
- The Bentley does not provide access to original physical media. As such, it should not be stored with the collection's materials.

## Logistics

All recycling and shredding boxes are shelved on the left-hand wall of the loading dock. Removable media should be placed in a separate box from non-digital (paper-based) materials.

Since recycling and shredding services have a base price, it is most cost effective to dispose of as much material at the same time as possible. It is also best to combine the shred order with our paper shredding. Please inform the Archivist for Metadata and Digital Curation when it appears there is no space remaining to store additional removable media. Recycling and shredding services will be requested at least once per year but could be requested more often based on the volume of materials for disposal.

Commit message:

add toc to retention and disposal docs

retention_and_disposal.md, after:

# Retention and Disposal of Physical Media

The following guidelines dictate our approach to retention and disposition of physical media after files have been successfully transferred from it.

**Table of Contents**
- [Default Procedure](#default-procedure)
- [Procedures for Disposal, Return, and Retention](#procedures-for-disposal-return-and-retention)
- [Logistics](#logistics)

## Default Procedure

Our default procedure is to recycle or shred removable media after content has been successfully transferred. There are some exceptions to this rule, including:
- media for which transfer is unsuccessful or errors occur
- media formats for which we do not currently have procedures or equipment for transfer
- media which has artifactual value
- media that needs to be returned to the donor

Speak with the Archivist for Metadata and Digital Curation if you have questions about whether a particular piece of media should be retained for any reason.

Most materials can be recycled while media containing sensitive data or Personally Identifiable Information (PII) should be shredded.

Donors also occasionally request their digital materials be returned. In this case, the media can be returned along with separations after processing is complete. Be sure to check the donor agreement and/or with the Lead Archivist for Collections Management about any donor requests.

> **Note**
>
> If an error occurs at any point in the transfer process, retain physical media.

Once a year, or once the recycling/shredding boxes in the loading dock are full (whichever comes first), we will arrange for removal.

## Procedures for Disposal, Return, and Retention

When media is to be recycled or shredded:
- When content is successfully transferred off of removable media and the donor has not requested its return, it can be recycled or shredded.
- Media containing PII or other sensitive information should be placed in the shredding box so that it can be securely disposed of. All other media can be recycled.
- Instructions on how and where to dispose of physical media can be found below in the Logistics section.

When media is to be returned to donor:
- After the successful transfer of content, store removable media together with paper-based separations to be returned to the donor following regular procedures (i.e. Lead Archivist for Collections Management will contact donor when processing is complete; materials can be returned by mail or donor must retrieve within 3 months).
- If no other materials are being returned to the donor, set removable media aside and inform Lead Archivist for Collections Management when work is complete.
- Add location where media are being stored to the accession record.
- If multiple accessions are being processed at the same time, the location should be added to the most recent/last created record.

When media is to be retained:
- Occasionally, we may retain removable media for a variety of reasons including unsuccessful transfer or when errors occur during transfer, when we do not have procedures or equipment for transfer, or when media has artifactual value.
- Speak with the Archivist for Metadata and Digital Curation if you have questions about whether a particular piece of media should be retained for any reason.
- Assign items to a removable media box (currently located in G-1012-D through G-1012-U) and record location and any other useful information for future processors (i.e. reason(s) for retention, issues with transfer, future plans for transfer, etc.) in the accession record.
- The Bentley does not provide access to original physical media. As such, it should not be stored with the collection's materials.

## Logistics

All recycling and shredding boxes are shelved on the left-hand wall of the loading dock. Removable media should be placed in a separate box from non-digital (paper-based) materials.

Since recycling and shredding services have a base price, it is most cost effective to dispose of as much material at the same time as possible. It is also best to combine the shred order with our paper shredding. Please inform the Archivist for Metadata and Digital Curation when it appears there is no space remaining to store additional removable media. Recycling and shredding services will be requested at least once per year but could be requested more often based on the volume of materials for disposal.
